# DIAT-µRadHAR Dataset 
In the view of national security, radar micro-Doppler (m-D) signatures-based recognition of suspicious human activities becomes significant. In connection to this, early detection and warning of terrorist activities at the country borders, protected/secured/guarded places and civilian violent protests is mandatory. Designing an automated human suspicious activities: army crawling, army jogging, jumping with holding a gun, army marching, boxing, and stone-pelting/grenades-throwing, recognition system using a suitable deep convolutional neural network (DCNN) model is rapidly growing due to its inherent in-depth features extraction capability. As a value addition to this research, an X-band continuous wave (CW) 10 GHz radar has been developed at our radar systems laboratory and used to acquire the m-D signatures, to prepare a dataset (DIAT-μRadHAR) corresponding to above mentioned suspicious activities. In order to prepare a realistic dataset, human targets of different heights, weights, and gender are directed to perform the suspicious activities in front of the radar at different ranges between 10 m - 0.5 km and at different target aspect angles (0°, ±15°, ±30° and ±45°).

Instructions: 

In our dataset, the total number of spectrogram images generated using the open-field experiments is 3780, and the class-wise details can be found in our journal articles (1)   M. Chakraborty, H. C. Kumawat, S. V. Dhavale and A. A. B. Raj, "DIAT-μ RadHAR (Micro-Doppler Signature Dataset) & μ RadNet (A Lightweight DCNN)—For Human Suspicious Activity Recognition," in IEEE Sensors Journal, vol. 22, no. 7, pp. 6851-6858, 1 April1, 2022, doi: 10.1109/JSEN.2022.3151943.   (2) M. Chakraborty, H. C. Kumawat, S. V. Dhavale and A. B. Raj A., "DIAT-RadHARNet: A Lightweight DCNN for Radar Based Classification of Human Suspicious Activities," in IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, vol. 71, pp. 1-10, 2022, Art no. 2505210, doi: 10.1109/TIM.2022.3154832. (3) M. Chakraborty, H. C. Kumawat, S. V. Dhavale and A. B. Raj A., "Application of DNN for radar micro-doppler signature-based human suspicious activity recognition." in Pattern Recognition Letters, vol. 162 , pp. 1-6, 2022, doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2022.08.005.

The dataset consist of 3780 spectrogram images (Image JPG File (.JPG)) corresponding to micro-Doppler signatures of different human activities; namely (a) army marching, (b) Stone pelting/Grenades throwing, (c) jumping with holding a gun, (d) army Jogging, (e) army crawling and (f) boxing activities.

To download the .mat files, for the free educational access, please send an e-mail request to "brazilraj.a@diat.ac.in" and "sunitadhavale@diat.ac.in" mentioning the subject: “DIAT-µRadHAR Dataset Educational Access Request” from their institutional e-mail id.

The DIAT-μRadHAR dataset is completely open to academic research. To use the dataset, please cite the following base/original papers:

(1)   M. Chakraborty, H. C. Kumawat, S. V. Dhavale and A. A. B. Raj, "DIAT-μ RadHAR (Micro-Doppler Signature Dataset) & μ RadNet (A Lightweight DCNN)—For Human Suspicious Activity Recognition," in IEEE Sensors Journal, vol. 22, no. 7, pp. 6851-6858, 1 April1, 2022, doi: 10.1109/JSEN.2022.3151943.  

(2) M. Chakraborty, H. C. Kumawat, S. V. Dhavale and A. B. Raj A., "DIAT-RadHARNet: A Lightweight DCNN for Radar Based Classification of Human Suspicious Activities," in IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, vol. 71, pp. 1-10, 2022, Art no. 2505210, doi: 10.1109/TIM.2022.3154832.

(3) M. Chakraborty, H. C. Kumawat, S. V. Dhavale and A. B. Raj A., "Application of DNN for radar micro-doppler signature-based human suspicious activity recognition." in Pattern Recognition Letters, vol. 162 , pp. 1-6, 2022, doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2022.08.005.
